# hugo traveler theme

This theme for the [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) static site generator is designed to make it easy to build a personal travel blog. Instead of focusing around blog posts, this theme centers around a trip as its primary form of content. A trip can either be a single page which summarizes the entire trip, or a collection of pages which describe parts of the trip. The theme is designed around the organization of trips on a map. The landing page displays the trips on a world map. Within a trip, it is also possible to insert a map to show the reader where the trip occurred.

There are 2 different types of maps supported - maps which are SVG images, and interactive maps. SVG maps are quick to load and do not require Javascript to render; while interactive maps provide a higher level of fidelity and offer more interactive experiences.

The <svgmap> shortcode included in the theme allows for displaying an SVG element as a map, while the <map> shortcode uses the [MapLibre GL JS](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js/docs/) library to offer an interactive map rendering tile data from a [PMTiles](https://github.com/protomaps/PMTiles) tile source. This removes the need to pay for tile data from Google or other commercial sources, and allows for the tile data to be stored cheaply on S3.

[simplemaps](https://simplemaps.com/) is a great source of freely licensed SVG maps which this theme can take advantage of. Some of the SVG maps offered by simplemaps have the incorrect capitalization of the `viewBox` attribute (it must be viewBox, not viewbox). Incorrect casing will prevent the map from properly resizing when the browser window changes - simply rename the attribute to fix this. The SVG files can be included as static resources in the site.

If you wish to use the <map> shortcode, please follow the instructiones in the PMTiles repo to install the tooling. You will need to choose storage platform such as S3 to host the pmtiles files, you should not include the pmtiles files as static resources in the site. The [bounding box finder](http://bboxfinder.com) tool makes it straightforward to extract a .pmtiles for reference.

If you wish to show multiple maps on the same entry, you can use the <columns> shortcode to have them render side-by-side. When multiple maps are shown, the `mapid` field in the `trip` section of the front matter can be set to control which map the page shows up under.